# 시작

- Hello, Thank you for being here
- The objective of my presentation is ...
- The topic of my presentation today is ...
- What i'm going to talk about today is ...
- I will divide my presentation into ... (how many parts)
- The presentation will focus on (A), (B), and (C)
- By the end of this presentation, I hope that ... (your goal)
- This is important because ...
- First, i will discuss... Next, i will talk about ... , Lastly (finally), ... we're going to look at

# 발표 내용 중

- Let's start (begin) with ...
- I would like to talk about ...
- i'd like to illustrate this by showing you ...
- I have considered ...  : ...라고 생각해왔습니다.
- I have looked at ... : ..를 지켜봐왔습니다.
- There are two alternatives, (A) and (B)
- This is explained by two factors. First ..., Second ...
- This is due to ... and also ...
- One reason for this is ...
- Another reason is ...
- Now let's move on to ...
- One way to solve this problem is ...
- Another is to ...
- I'd like to expand on this (aspect / problem / point)
- Let me elaborate on that : 그것에 대해서 자세히 설명드리겠습니다
- My research shows ...
- The figures indicate that ...
- A key problem is ...
- I'd like to turn to something completely different : 완전 다른 것을 설명드리겠습니다.
- I'd like to digress here for a moment and just mention that ... : 잠깐 화제를 돌려 ... 를 얘기 해보도록 하겠습니다.
- Let me go back to what i said earlier about ... : 아까 ... 에 대해서 말한 것으로 다시 돌아가보도록 하겠습니다.
- The evidence is ...
- I believe(think) that ... 
- It is our view that ...
- Our opinion is ...
- It seems to us that ...

# 발표 마무리 시

- Today i have shown you ...
- I'd like to conclude by -ing ...
- I'd like to finish by -ing ...
- In conclusion / Finally / To sum up
- I'd now like to sum up the main points which were ...
- I'd like to recap the main points of my presentation. (First I covered, ... Then we talked about ..., Finally we looked at ...)
- So, as I've shown in this presentation today, ...
- Thank you very much for your attention

# 질문 받을 때

- Thank you. If there are any questions, i will do my best to answer them.
- If you have any questions, i'd be pleased to answer them.
- I'd be happy to answer any question.
- Now i'd like to invite any questions you may have.
- Do you have any question?
- I would welcome any comments or suggestions.
- That's a very interesting question.
- I'd like to pass that questions on to Sam.
- Have i asnwered your question? : 질문에 답이 되었나요?
 
# 발표 넘길 때

- And now i'd like to hand over to James.
- And now i'd like to ask James to ...
